[MUSIC]
In this second exercise,
we are being asked to look up
the digits within the the product IDs.
Similar to the previous exercise,
we're going to need to find the position
of the dash within the product ID so that
we can use the right function to select
the desired number of characters.
But since the right function starts
selecting characters from the end of
the word, we're going to need to
calculate the position of the dash,
starting from the end of the word,
as well.
This is a simple equation, as long as we
know the total length of the text strings.
Fortunately, we already went over
a formula that can give us that,
the length of the text string.
So first we're going to use
the LEN function to calculate
the length of the product ID.
So let's type =LEN, and
now we select the product ID in column B.
As you can see, the first product
ID has nine characters in total.
And the dash is in the fifth
position starting from the left.
This means that dash is also in the fifth
position starting from the right
since 9 minus 5 plus 1 equals 5.
Now that we know in what position the dash
is found starting from the end of
the product ID, we can use a right
function to select a digit.
We're still using Product ID in Column B,
so let's first select that cell.
Now we need to provide the number of
characters we would like to select.
We know that this is going to be the
number or characters in the Product ID,
minus the position of the dash,
starting from the left, plus 1.
But, we also know from the previous
exercise that we need to subtract 1
from this number, since we only want
to select digits, and not the dash.
So the final number of characters is
going to be the number of characters,
which can be found in column D,
minus the position of the dash
which can be found in column C.
Now, if we press Enter, we can see that
our formula returns the correct answer.
So we can copy now,
the remaining product IDs to the rest.
Now that we know how to separate the IDs
using multiple columns and formulas,
we're going to try to combine that entire
operation into one concise formula.
We will follow the exact same logic
as before, but nest the formulas.
We start by writing out our right.
Now, we are still looking up
characters in the product ID
that can be found in Column D,
so that's easy.
Next, we need to provide the number of
characters that we want to extract.
So, remember that's from what we just did.
It's going to be the total number
of characters in the product ID,
minus the position of the dash.
So here we enter LENV33, since this will
give us the length of the product ID,
minus FIND, like we did before,
the dash within the product ID.
Once we make sure we have the appropriate
amount of closing parentheses,
we press Enter, and we see the condensed
formula gives us the same answer.
Now it's your turn to practice FIND,
LEN, and MID with exercise 2B,
where you're going to be given with
a dataset with phone numbers, and
asked to extract things
like the area code.
[MUSIC]